Okay. So the first thing we do with any
project is we create a new folder for the source
. So let's call create a source directory. And
next let's move our app tsx into the source directory
. So let's start by deleting everything abdel TsX and
let's start from scratch. So let's import react from
react. And that's export. Const uh so we'll
use the TypeScript typing. So we'll do react dot
fc and we'll make this into an arrow function.
And let's return a you one nice thing with TypeScript
is if you use TypeScript and venus code, which
has amazing TypeScript support, you will get auto imports
. You don't have to add a lot of imports
yourself. Mhm. Mhm Cool. And I'm going
to do a const Styles at the bottom. Let's
do style sheet. Don't create nostalgic got imported from
react native automatically. Let's just have a container And
I'm going to make it for with so flex one
and I'm gonna give it a background color of two
. Let's do on the view and I still style
equals styles dot container. Right. The last thing
we need to do is update the import for up
. So if you go to index Js, you
might have not noticed. But previously in a template
after TsX has a default export but we've changed it
to a named export. So here we are where
we import up. We just need to de structure
it from the export. So when we say that
you should have a full screen teal background. You
could previously did my intro to react native course.
You'll notice that the way for structuring the ap files
a little bit different. So we're not we're using
named exports instead of default exports. And this is
kind of a convenience thing because you're guaranteed to know
what your export is going to be called because it's
a default export. You can technically call it anything
you could have, you could have typos. It's
hard to re factor them. So the current modern
convention used to have named exports. And that's what
we're going to be doing throughout this course. All
right. So in our source directory, let's create
a new folder and let's call it screens. So
this we're going to put all of our screens in
and let's create a new file. Let's call it
home dot screen dot tsx. So the dot screen
part is just a convention. I like to you
just to tell myself that this file is a screen
without having to go into it here, let's import
react from react an export. Const home react fc
. And we'll make it an arrow function. And
let's just return a view with some text and this
call it home. It's important text from react native
. All right. And let's do the same for
our history tab. So in the screen directory will
do a new file and history dot screen dot csx
. And I'm going to copy the contents of the
home file and just rename home to history. Okay
. All right. So now we need a navigator
. So let's add another file and call it bottom
tabs. Yeah. Dot navigator dot tsx. And
here will the const bottom tabs equals create bottom tab
navigator. And so this is also imported from react
navigation. Bottom tabs. We're going to do const
, we're going to export the components and we're going
to export const autumn tabs, uh, react fc
. So don't forget to import, react, connect
and we'll make this into an arrow function as well
. I'm going to return and we're going to use
this bottom tabs that we just created. So let's
do bottom tabs dot so we have a navigator.
So there's a four bottom tab is always a one
top level navigator. And then as Children we will
do bottom tabs dot screen and this is where we
pass in our screen. So the screen has a
name, this is what we call it. We
wanted to navigate to it. Just go home and
a component. And first it is our home tab
. Yeah, we'll call this bottom tabs navigator as
the export of course. So now we have the
navigator and we have at the home screen let's also
add our history screen. So yeah, at the
history screen to the import, then copy this bottom
stab screen, call it history. Excellent. And
lastly we need to use this bottom tab navigator in
our entry points to interrupt abdel tsx. So in
after csx, remove the view that we had and
let's instead return a navigation container. So this is
an import from react navigation. So this will be
wrapped at the very top of europe. So this
is like all the navigation is inside this navigation container
. And in here we'll do a bottom tabs Navigator
, which is the import from screens that we just
created is a quick question of why you prefer exporting
Const instead of exporting default in your modules firstly make
sure you're factoring easier. And also it makes it
so you have a consistent like name style. Um
so okay, so for example, if I exported
this as default, so if I did export,
default, you know something then if I import there's
something in here, I could do import anything.
So I could name this anything. So it's not
guaranteed to be consistent. Whereas if we export it
as a constant, as a named export, I
don't have a choice but to use this. I
mean obviously I could alias it to something else,
but usually if you wanted to for example, rename
something in your code base, it becomes easier to
find. So it's just a convention. Cool.
Obviously if you prefer default exports go for it,
uh we can all have opinions in JavaScript that's for
sure. Alright, so now we've now that we've
saved this, let's just remove the code we don't
need anymore. We have a bottom town navigator.
So we have a home tab and we have a
history tab and the they work and cops and the
same thing is working on android. So we have
our history tab and our home tab and this is
basically how you make a bottom navigator. So if
you use that navigators before you can always nest them
. So for example if in your home tab there
are several screens then this component, which at the
moment is just a one JavaScript Well when JavaScript screens
could be a stag navigator instead or another bottom navigator
. So basically that's how the nesting works within um
react navigation. All right, next up, let's
add a third tab for analytics. So to do
that in screens, let's create a new file the
same as we did with home in history and call
it analytics dot screen 36. And I'm going to
again copy the content of our home and paste it
here and just rename this to analytics. And in
our bottom tabs navigator we want to import our genetic
screen And also add another bottom tab screen to it
. So we need name analytics and component 96.
Is there a limit to how many navigation items you
can have there isn't it's just kind of a it's
just kind of a tree view. It's like,
you know, is there a limit to um,
you know, how many days you can have in
html. It's kind of like you can have as
many as you want, presumably if you had thousands
there would be some performance uh implications. But there
isn't a limit. Um how about the tab bar
, is there a limit on the bottom tab bar
? How many? Um, that is a good
question. Let's have a look. So, so
really, what needs to be unique is the name
, So if I create a bunch of them,
uh, I think there's a visual limit. Um
, so like there would just be spaced evenly obviously
. So now I've added a bunch of them and
it's just not not going to look sensible. So
I think realistically you wouldn't really have any more than
four. Well, five I think So far dad
, I guess if I had five days just about
works. But usually most apps have between 333 and
four. How about stacked navigation? Like to bottom
bars? Could that be a potential uh Oh yeah
, I could, you could, you could test
them so I could, well, I can't recursive
. We make this. Okay. So if I
did another bottom tabs navigator. So let's do two
. I think it'll work. Mm hmm. Okay
. So I added in analytics three. So I
would expect it to be, yeah, So there's
like a double knave bar. So if you nest
them, you'll just get like navigation inside. So
it's literally just a tree view. So it's basically
saying. So each of these components you can treat
as your abdel tsx like the kind of like,
well what kind of um, each of these components
are like their own, like playground and then anything
you add in here um like will just be rendered
inside. So that's why, for example, if
you need to have full screen models in your app
, they need to be rendered um outside of these
bottom tabs Navigator, Otherwise they get rendered like above
your Naba.